docs: add ivy compatibility guide (#33390)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/ivy-compatibility.md

# Ivy Compatibility Guide

The Angular team has worked hard to ensure Ivy is mostly backwards-compatible with the previous rendering engine ("View Engine"). 
However, in rare cases, minor changes were necessary to ensure that the Angular API stayed fast and behaved predictably.
In order to smooth the transition, we have provided schematics wherever possible so your application code is migrated automatically by the CLI.

> That said, medium to large applications will likely need to apply some manual updates.

Reviewer: this doesn't depend on the size but on how the app uses Angular.
```suggestion
That said, some applications will likely need to apply some manual updates.
```

{@a debugging}
## How to Debug Errors with Ivy

In version 9, [a few deprecated APIs have been removed](guide/updating-to-version-9#removals) and there are a [few breaking changes](guide/updating-to-version-9#breaking-changes) unrelated to Ivy. 

> If you're seeing errors after updating to version 9, you'll first want to rule those changes out. To do so, temporarily turn off Ivy in your `tsconfig.json` and re-start your app:

Reviewer: I suggest we point people to the opt out guide instead of duplicating the instructions: https://next.angular.io/guide/ivy#opting-out-of-angular-ivy

{@a common-changes}
## Changes You May See

Below are a few breaking changes that are more likely than others to be visible as applications are transitioning to Ivy. 

- By default, `@ContentChildren` queries will only search direct child nodes in the DOM hierarchy (previously, they would search any nesting level in the DOM as long as another directive wasn't matched above it). 

- All classes that use Angular DI must have an Angular decorator like `@Directive()` or `@Injectable` (previously, undecorated classes were allowed if an ancestor class or subclass had a decorator).

- Unbound inputs for directives (e.g.  name in `<my-comp name="">`) are now set upon creation of the view, before change detection runs (previously, all inputs were set during change detection).

{@a less-common-changes}
## Less Common Changes

The following changes will be visible more rarely, as they mostly deal in edge cases or unspecified behavior that is not part of our public API. 

- Properties like `host` inside `@Component` and `@Directive` decorators can be inherited (previously, only properties with explicit field decorators like `@HostBinding` would be inherited).

> - HammerJS support is opt-in through importing the `HammerModule` (previously, it was always included in production bundles regardless of whether the app used HammerJS).

Reviewer: is this ivy specific?

Author: Yeah, View Engine still adds the providers by default

- If a token is injected with the `@Host` or `@Self` flag, the module injector is not searched for that token (previously, tokens marked with these flags would still search at the module level).   

- If a template is declared in one view but inserted into a different view, change detection will occur for that template only when its insertion point is checked (previously, change detection would also run when its declaration point was checked). 

- When accessing multiple local refs with the same name in template bindings, the first is matched (previously, the last instance was matched).

- Directives that are used in an exported module (but not exported themselves) are exported publicly (previously, the compiler would automatically write a private, aliased export that it could use its global knowledge to resolve downstream).

- Foreign functions or foreign constants in decorator metadata aren't statically resolvable (previously, you could import a constant or function from another compilation unit, like a library, and use that constant/function in your `@NgModule` definition).

> - Forward references to directive inputs accessed through local refs is no longer supported by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Forward references to directive inputs accessed through local refs are no longer supported by default.
```

Reviewer: this doesn't mean much to me without explaining what the non-default way of doing this is.

> - If there is both an unbound class attribute and a [class] binding, the classes in the unbound attribute will also be added (previously, the class binding would overwrite classes in the unbound attribute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is both an unbound class attribute and a `[class]` binding, the classes in the unbound attribute will also be added (previously, the class binding would overwrite classes in the unbound attribute).
```

> - It's not possible to assign values to template-only variables like `item` in `ngFor="let item of items"` (previously, the compiler would ignore these assignments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is now an error to assign values to template-only variables like `item` in `ngFor="let item of items"` (previously, the compiler would ignore these assignments).
```

> - It's no longer possible to switch out lifecycle hooks on specific directive instances for testing (instead, modify the lifecycle hook on the directive type). 

Reviewer: this doesn't mean much to a casual reader and even I have a hard time following. Are you saying that testbed can no longer do this? or what does this mean?

Author: This would benefit from the example link. What I'm talking about is if you do something like `MyComp.ngOnInit = myMockFn` at runtime

Reviewer: ah. that is not obvious at all. example would help, or explicitly say "mocking out lifecycle hooks"

> - Special injection tokens (e.g. `TemplateRef` or `ViewContainerRef`) return a new instance whenever they are requested (previously, instances of special tokens were shared if requested on the same node). This primarily affects testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Special injection tokens (e.g. `TemplateRef` or `ViewContainerRef`) return a new instance whenever they are requested (previously, instances of special tokens were shared if requested on the same node). This primarily affects tests that do identity comparison of these objects.
```
